EZ-ZONE RM Modular Controller Family

This EZ-ZONE RM controller family is extremely flexible and scalable allowing mixing and matching of I/O for one to 152 control loops and limits, up to 256 monitor points and other controller functions including counters, timers, math, and logic in an integrated control solution. The DIN-rail mountable modules can be used as stand-alone controllers, but when combined with other EZ-ZONE RM modules, PM PLUS controllers and ASPYRE AT power controllers they form a Watlow Ecosystem Solution sharing I/O and function block programming as a system.


Description: 
The EZ-ZONE RM controller family includes several module types: A temperature and process control, monitoring and over/under temperature limit module, a high-density control module, a high-density limit module, an input/output (I/O) expansion module, a high-density monitor/scanner module, a fiber optic temperature sensor module, an EtherCAT® module and a data logging and field communications access module. A system is configured by connecting any combination of module types and configuring with Watlow’s COMPOSER® software to address specific application needs.

Key component of a Watlow Ecosystem Solution

Integrates EZ-ZONE® RM, RMA PLUS™ and PM PLUS® controllers and ASPYRE AT power controllers for a complete solution including Modbus® TCP, EtherNet/IP™, or EtherCAT® communication.
Eliminates discrete wiring between temperature controllers and power controllers for each heater through the highspeed bakcplane interface with Watlow controllers. 
Enables data collection and diagnostics from temperature, process and power control 
Customizes for your application with programmable function blocks including logic, math, compare and more. 

Description	Information
TRU-TUNE®+ Adaptive Control	Yes
Agency Approvals	UL® , CSA, CE, RoHS, W.E.E.E. FM (limit feature), SEMI F47-0200, Class 1, Div. 2 on select models
Alarms	Up to 24 per module
Ambient Operating Range	-18 to 65°C (0 to 149°F)
Communication Protocols	
Standard Bus
Modbus® RTU
Modbus® TCP
EtherNet/IP™
Watlow Ecosystem (Intermodule Bus)
Control/Limit Loops	152/192
Description	Multi-loop controller with data logging ability
Max Monitor Channels	256
Max Output	15A
Mounting	DIN-rail
Operating Requirements	None
Phase Configurations	1
Profiling	Yes
Supported Controllers	EZ-ZONE RM
Remote Limit Reset	1
Display Height	Optional RUI: 0.84in. (21mm)
Warranty (Years)	3
