Eurotherm 6100A / 6180A Paperless Graphic Recorder

Eurotherm 6100A and 6180A Series Data Recorders have been specifically designed to meet industry requirements for data integrity of process records in pharmaceutical, aerospace, automotive and food & beverage applications.
With capacity extendable to 48 precision input channels, and recording interval of as little as 125ms, the 6100 series is self-contained, cost effective and trusted by customers and auditors alike.

Data can be encrypted during transmission to archive or backup servers, using SFTP to prevent interception or falsification of packets. Data redundancy is provided using a store and forward mechanism to avoid data loss if a network connection fails.

Description
Secure data recording
Full color, high resolution, touch screen display
Up to 48 universal input channels
Batch functionality
Remote viewing and configuration
Full audit trail
USB “Plug & Play”
Local printing
The 6180A offers unrivalled input accuracy with a 125ms total sample rate for up to 48 input channels. Input channels are freely configurable to suit your process requirements. Each instrument has an intuitive, touch screen display to enable operators to clearly view process data in varying formats.

All have onboard Flash data storage capability, Ethernet communication and choice of Compact Flash or SD Card. Data is stored in a tamper resistant binary format that can be used for secure, long term records of your process.

The 6000 Series fits a wide spectrum of applications by offering fully featured software options and flexible I/O, which can be added to at any time. A unique ‘trial mode’ feature removes the constraints of the purchased options, allowing you to simply ‘try before you buy’.

Touch screen display
The 6000 Series HMI is easy and intuitive to use ensuring faster productivity and minimal learning requirements. It also incorporates a ‘Pop Up’ full ‘QWERTY’ keyboard to facilitate easy data or message entry. There are no complicated button presses, you can create your own operator buttons, anywhere on the display. Use of intuitive drop down menus aid consistent navigation.

Extensive communications
Communications flexibility is the cornerstone of solutions in today’s challenging Global market.  The 6000 Series can be accessed via a Local Area Network, dial-up connection, Intranet or Internet.

Built-in data protection and traceability
Your most valuable asset is the data collected for process and legislation purposes. Protection includes Audit Trail for 21CFR Part 11 and Nadcap applications, with recorded login, use of unique usernames and passwords.

Other options include: Portable versions

Ideal for:

21 CFR Part 11 Life Sciences applications
AMS2750F Heat Treatment applications
Power generation
Water / waste water
Sterilizers / autoclaves
Features:

12.1″ XGA touchscreen display
Custom graphic displays
Remote viewing / configuration
Batch functions
Adaptive recording
Math functions
Totalizers, timers, counters
Groups
Time synchronization (SNTP)
Audit trail
Electronic signatures
Security Manager
FTP client/server
Ethernet communications
Serial communications
Event inputs
Email / SMS notification
Web server
Eurotherm Data Reviewer is the ideal choice for the viewing, analysis and printing of historical data files acquired from Eurotherm data acquisition equipment.

 Specifications
PC Configuration

Yes

Batch Management

Yes

Auditor Features

Yes

Network Addressing

Boot P, DHCP, Fixed IP

Graphic Display

6100A: 5.5" / 6180A: 12.1"

Protection

IP66

Relay Outputs

Yes

Annotation

Yes

Contact Inputs

Yes

Communications

EtherNet/IP Server, Modbus TCP/RTU Master & Slave

Mathematics

Yes

Counters

Yes

Totalisers

Yes

Ethernet/FTP

Yes

Custom Screens

Yes

Remote Viewing

Yes

Recording Speed

8Hz

Trend Speed

8Hz

USB

6100A: 3 USB / 6180A: 1 USB

Reports

10

Groups

12

Review of History (on screen)

Yes

AMS2750F

Yes

Inputs

6100A: 18 / 6180A: 48